hey we're on the brink of a government
shutdown right now and Congress are
trying to the hammer out some kind of
agreement keep the country open and this
really is amazing we've reached a point
somehow at which North and South Koreans
have a better relationship than
Republicans and Democrats do Republicans
have been trying all week to blame
Democrats for a possible shutdown
they're saying the Democrats are sharing
the government down even though
Republicans are in control of the House
the Senate and the White House Democrats
don't have the can't truck date
Democrats can't even shut their
computers down without Paul Ryan's
tomato but the Republicans have done
something that III think is bad they've
lump chip into their spending bill chip
is the Children's Health Insurance
Program which covers about nine million
low income kids and is yet to be
reauthorized since it expired it's very
scary for parents you know funding for
chip should never have been allowed to
run out in the first place this is a
program that supported overwhelmingly by
both parties Republicans and Democrats
and all Paul Ryan image McConnell had to
do is put it up for a vote it would have
been a done deal
but they decided to use it as a
bargaining tool instead and so now we're
now we're on the brink of the whole
government shutting shutting down and I
know this is a complicated but I have a
way of to illustrate what's going on
that I hope will make sense in a simple
way now bring in the coffee card it's
time for barista theater everyone
well here I am at my local coffee
establishment huh hello I'd like a
cappuccino please okay great that's one
cappuccino and one giant bag of Horton
but I know what a bag of horse gets you
know it's kind of a two-for-one thing I
want the cappuccino you also have to pay
for a giant bag of horse well what if I
just want the cappuccino whoa buddy
you start making demands like that I
will shut down this entire coffee
establishment shut down the store you
work at yeah it's absurd your job is to
sell coffee and scene
all right so that's what's happening
the bottom line if they want a fun chip
which they claim they do because they
care about children they could do that
immediately if they took a vote on chip
alone there would be no votes against it
but they want to use children's health
as leverage unfortunately for them this
ruse got a little more difficult this
morning to pull off because President
Trump who has these weird occasional
flashes of common sense tweeted chip
should be part of a long-term solution
not a 30-day or short-term extension
which happens to be a hundred percent
correct but also happens to be exactly
the opposite of the what the White House
said yesterday so now these guys don't
know what to do especially because it's
unclear whether the president
understands the chip is a government
program and not a bag of cookies whose
last name is ahoy so I have to say I've
been thinking about those I think Donald
Trump actually wants a government
shutdown I think he thinks it would be
like a snow day for him to take off if
you liked that video click subscribe and
we'll be together until one of us dies